The AirCrane water system is used for multiple tasks. Two of the most common tasks including fire fighting, and ground erosion control.

Filling the Tank

1) Filling the tank using the Sea Snorkel

The Sea Snorkel is designed to force water at a high rate of speed into the tank while skimming over the water. 
The fill rate is approximately 2,500 gallons in 40 second at 35-45 knots.

To use the Sea Snorkel, lower the Sea Snorkel boom using the "j" key.
Skimming the surface of the water, position the helicopter at an AGL where the red line on the boom is at the water line.
Continue skimming until the desired fill level is reached (approx. 40 seconds).
When the tank is filled to the desired level, raise the Sea Snorkel back to the stow position using the "j" key again.


2) Filling the tank using the Hover Snorkel

The Hover Snorkel can be used to fill the tank from a variety of sources.
Fresh water ponds and lakes, saltwater and open top tanks.
It can operate in as little as 18 inches of water.
It has a fill rate of 2,500 gallons in 45 seconds.

To use the Hover Snorkel, deploy the Sniffer Head and hose over the water using the "J" key.
If over land, deploy when the AGL is high enough to not allow the Sniffer Head to make contact with the ground.
Hitting the sniffer head on the ground from a high enough AGL could cause damage to the Sniffer Head.
The Sniffer Head will automatically suck water into the tank once it is below the surface of the water.
Continue in a hover until the desired fill level is reached (approx. 45 seconds).
When the tank is filled to the desired level, raise the helicopter AGL to where the Sniffer Head is above the surface of the water.

Currently the Hover Snorkel can only be deployed and not retracted or latched. Retracting and re-latching is on the TODO list.


Deploying the Tank Payload

1) Deploy payload using the Tank Doors

The tank doors are operated using a micro processor to control coverage levels.
The coverage level can be programed to the following-
  1 - 1 gal/100 sq. ft.
  2 - 2 gal/100 sq. ft.
  3 - 3 gal/100 sq. ft.
  4 - 4 gal/100 sq. ft.
  5 - 5 gal/100 sq. ft.
  6 - 6 gal/100 sq. ft.
  7 - 7 gal/100 sq. ft.
  8 - 8 gal/100 sq. ft.
  9 - entire loade in 3 sec (2,500 gal).
Currently the flow rate is set at 9 and cannot be change. Flow rate is on the TODO list.

Toggle the Tank Door open and closed using the "K" key.


2) Deploy payload using the Water Cannon

The Water Cannon has a flow rate of approximately 300 gallons per minute, with a range of 200 feet.
That is approximately 8 minutes on a full tank.
The Water Cannon can be used to spray water, fire retardant or a mixture of water and ground cover seed.

Toggle the Water Cannon on and off using the "k" key.

